# Objective function for the RNA folding problem

This project evaluates RNA secondary structures by estimating Gibbs free energy.  It uses a simplified approach based on interatomic distance frequencies and pre-calculated scoring profiles.

## Overview

The project consists of three main parts:

1. **Training:** Trains the objective function by using interatomic distance and generates scoring profiles from known PDB structures.
2. **scoring.py:** Calculate score profiles following interatomic distances.
3. **Evaluation:** Estimates Gibbs free energy for predicted structures.
4. **Plotting:** Visualizes the scoring profiles.

## Usage

### 1. **Training:**
```bash
   python training.py
```
Configure RNA_pdb folder here named PDB_data and output_folder (score_output_profiles in training.py.
**Output:** Frequency profiles.

### 2. **Scoring:**
```bash
   python scoring.py
```
Set the output from the training step and output_directory in **scoring.py**. This script calculates scores from the frequency profiles generated by **training.py** and will be used by the plotting function.

### 3. Evaluation:
```bash
python evaluate.py
```
Use PDB_data and scores directory in evaluate.py which evaluate the RNA structures by estimating their Gibbs free energy using the trained objective function

### 4. Plotting:
```bash
    python plot_profiles.py
```
 Set scores directory from the scoring and output_directory (plot_) in plots.py.

**Files**

    training.py: Generates scoring profiles.
    scoring.py :  return the score data from the training for the plotting
    evaluate.py: Evaluates structures.
    plots.py: Creates plots.

**Data**

   PDB files should be placed in the directory specified by RNA_pdb_folder in training.py.
   Scoring profiles (output from training.py) should be used as input for evaluate.py and plot.py.

**Requirements**

    Python 3
    matplotlib (pip install matplotlib)

Author

Abdou DIOUF
